# MScThesis
1. Defining and plotting the amplification factor due to two lensing models is performed in amp_factor_two_lens_models.ipynb
2. Transition between wave and geometric optics approximation is performed and results are presented in Transition_between_wave_and_geometric_optics_limit.ipynb
3. An example of plotting the source signal after adding interferometer noises is presented in Plotting_source_signal_in_bilby.ipynb
4. The entire parameter estimation of source and lensing parameters before and after adding point mass lens model is presented in the code PE_of_source_and_lensing_parameters_before_and_after_lensing.ipynb
5. Key results obtained by performing PE on a lensed BBH merger signal as if it weren't lensed is presented in Sampling_without_considering_the_lens_effect.ipynb
6. Entire report of this work is presented in the pdf file MSc_report_8053.pdf
7. All copyrights reserved to University of Glasgow

Abstract:
This scientific research explores the nature and properties of a lensed gravitational wave signal resulting from compact binary coalescence of merging binary black hole system. In the first part of the research, we focus on the theoretical analysis performed over the past years based on the Takahashi-Nakamura formalism to analytically express the amplification obtained in the source signal due to its encounter with a compact isolated astrophysical lens object. This research presents the results on both wave optics and geometric optics limit and produces an ideal transition point between the two limits for a varying dimensionless frequency of the source signal. We observe that for any value of the dimensionless frequency greater than unity, both the limits hold well and produce similar amount of magnification. In the second part of the research, we produce a sine-gaussian source model and analyze how the source properties are affected by the presence of a point-mass lens model on its way to the observer which results in a strong lensing phenomenon. We see no correlation between the frequency of the sine-gaussian wave and the lensing parameters, but solid correlation between the amplitude of the signal, the source position offset with the lens and lens mass. In the final part of the research, we model a binary black hole merger GW signal and observe how a point-mass lens model would affect the nature and physical parameters of the merging binary black hole system. We see strong correlation between the luminosity distance and lensing parameters. When we create a strongly lensed signal and perform parameter estimation using nested sampling by assuming that there is no lensing, we simulate how LIGO/VIRGO samples any incoming GW signal. We can clearly see that the resulting posteriors of source parameters have huge offset from the originally injected values because of ignoring the lensing effect on the input side. This leads to a conclusion that for GW signals which have higher probability of strong lensing, the interferometers should consider lensing effects while sampling any incoming gravitational wave signal during its observing runs. 
